# Label: 1L

## Description
So far, there are at least 4 variants

### Carriers observed on

This message label has been observed on the following carriers.

Carrier | IATA Code | ICAO Code |
--------------------- | ----- | -----
Lufthansa | LH | DLH
Austrian Airlines | OS | AUA
Condor | DE | CFG
EgyptAir | MS | MSR
Sunwing Airlines | WG | SWG
Frontier Airlines | F9 | FFT

## Examples (LH variant)

### Example from flight LH0440, Registration D-ABYJ, ICAO 3C4B2A
Recorded Monday, June 20, 2022 18:15:06 UTC

```
00025234215:WSSP303PWTIA3F934PFO45
```

### Example from flight LH0440, Registration D-ABYJ, ICAO 3C4B2A
Recorded Monday, June 20, 2022 18:16:27 UTC

```
00026209299GDJZ0TY+JF)*I4P7PU9-K4:A3F3C5R3G)BGBS4SQATXTBG115
```

### Example from flight OS0094, Registration OE-LAY
Recorded August 14, 2022 22:28:14 UTC

```
00457266201:SZ8HX485ST4HFJZVPPPX-4Z4-VVPXJSZJV999F
```

### More Examples

```
TAC/MEL/1325/      /  / /   /YES            /    /                  \r

```

## Examples (DE variant)

### Example from flight DE2075, Registration D-ABUC
Recorded August 14, 2022 00:32:57 UTC

```
0002022120000325114AUG22    KBWIEDDFDE2075    .D-ABUC,10582,,0800,,LT,  72600,86880,-,-
```

1. Flight is between **KBWI** and **EDDF**
2. `FDE` is flight data entry?
3. `ETA` is 0800Z?

### Example from flight DE2075, Registration D-ABUC
Recorded August 14, 2022 00:51:31 UTC

```
00022201700OEDDF,HALLO OPS,ETA FRA 0750. 20 L8.,VOELLIGE INKOMETENZ IN,BWI. 1 HR AUF FUEL TRUCK,GAWARTET DER UNS DIE LET,ZTEN 5 T EINFUELLT. SLOW,GND HANDLING IM UEBRIGEN,GRUSS
```

Appears to be a takeoff report. Not sure if the message type is specifically for that purpose or is just a free-for-all free text message.

1. **EDDF** is the destination airport

## Examples (WG variant)
Appears to be another position report variant with wind data.

### Example from flight WG0652, Registration C-FJVE
Recorded August 11, 2022 00:42:25 UTC

```
00708213200/GS 457125/DEP CYUL/DES MUVR/ETA 0328/GW 721/ALT 33993
CAS 277/SAT - 44.0/FN SWG652/TFQ 108/DAY 11JUL22/UTC 004223
LON W 74.456/LAT N 40.877/WD 276/WS  44
```

1. `GS` is ground speed
2. `DEP` is departure airport, **CYUL** in this example
3. `DES` is destination airport, **MUVR** in this example
4. `ETA` is estimated arrival time
5. `GW` is gross weight? (unknown units)
6. `ALT` is altitude in feet (33993 ft in this example)
7. `CAS` is calibrated air speed (unknown units, possibly knots)
8. `SAT` is static air temperature (probably in Celsius, -44.0 in this example)
9. `FN` is flight number, ICAO format
10. `TFQ` is total fuel quantity? Unknown units
11. `WD` is wind direction (degree units, 276° in the presented example)
12. `WS` is wind speed (not sure on units, possibly knots/hour)

## Examples (F9 variant)
Appears to be a takeoff delay report message.

### Example from flight F92286, Registration N392FR
Recorded July 20, 2022 11:15:27 UTC

```
FFT2286,KPHL,1049,    ,OVERNIGHT MX KEPT A/C OUT OF SVC. DIDNT GET PAPERWORK UNTIL 5 MIN PRIORTO PUSH TIME.
```

1. `KPHL` is the departure airport
2. `1049` seems to represent either OUT or OFF in UTC time

### Example from flight F91171, Registration N318FR
Recorded August 17, 2022 17:35:25 UTC

```
FFT1171,KPHL,1709,    ,SLOW BOARDING DUE TO W/CPAX AND AISLE CHAIR IN EXIT ROW
```

1. `KPHL` is the departure airport
2. `1709` seems to represent either OUT or OFF in UTC time

## Examples (MS variant)
Appears to be another position report variant without wind data

### Example from flight MS0938, Registration SU-GEJ, ICAO 0101BA
Recorded July 21, 2022 02:24:42 UTC
```
N026.894/E046.406/UTC 020700/FOB 007.2/ALT 40000/CAS 0948/ETA 0403
```

1. `UTC` field should represent the timestamp in UTC time but it's off by around 17 minutes. Since this message was from HFDL, the delay was from propagation issues?
2. `FOB` is fuel on board, unknown units
3. `ALT` is altitude in feet 
3. `CAS` is calibrated air speed, units unknown

## Acronyms / Codes


## Analysis

Per history data at ADSB-X, at the time of the LH recordings above, this aircraft was readying for landing at KIAH, and was flying at an altitude of 6300 feet on a heading of approximately 270.
