# Label: 80

## Description

This label has been used by several airlines across different kinds of aircraft and appears to be mostly automated messages containing different reports

## Examples

### Example from flight Y40874 (Y4-874), registration XA-VLZ, ICAO 0D0A21
Recorded Thursday, July 7, 2022 22:29:05 UTC

```
3N01 POSRPT 0874/07 MMMX/KIAH .XA-VLZ\r\n/POS N29595W095447/ALT +04983/MCH 357/FOB 0053/ETA 2235
```

1. 3N01 - unknown
2. POSRPT - presumably "position report"
3. 0874 - carrier flight number
4. 07 MMMX - airport of departure.  Not clear what "07" means.
5. KIAH - arrival airport
6. .XA-VLZ - registration, right justified, with "." filler
7. POS N29595W095447 - Position, latitude and longitude
8. ALT +04983 - altitude, in feet
9. MCH 357 - Mach number, in thousands.  Reported value would be 0.357 Mach, or around 220 kts at altitude given. [Thanks, TanerH for suggestion!]
10. FOB 0053 - possibly "fuel on board"?
11. ETA 2235 - estimated time of arrival

### Example from flight SQ317 operated by A380 reg 9V-SKU

```
3T06 FUELRP  0317 /14  EGLL/ WSSS  .9V-SKU  14082022 1306
/XFQ 000.5/DWX N/PVS N/TKR N/RDP N/EWX N/OVF N/INT N/MIN N/OTH Y
/TXT INCREASE IN ZFW.
```

1. 3T06  - Unknown
2. FUELRP - fuel report
3. 0317 - Flight number
4. /14 ?
5. EGLL/WSSS - Departed  EGLL, arriving at WSSS
6. .9V-SKU - Registration prefixed with .
7. ZFW - Zero fuel weight
8. N & Y - These must be boolean values, but unclear what they are for. Possibly relating to valve, pump or whether or not there is fuel in the tank?

### Example from C-FLLJ Flair 737-800 performing flight F8226
```
1101 OFFRP  0226/14 CYVR/KSFO .C-FFLJ
/OUT 1306/OFF 1327/FOB 0186/ETA 1518
```

1. OFFRP - ? "off report" maybe?
2. CYVR/KSFO - Flight from Vancouver to SFO
3. FOB - Fuel on board
4. OUT/OFF - Out of gate/chocks off?  -  this appears to match up with the time it left the gate by a margin of 2mins, OFF  - weight off wheels? this appears  to match up with the t akeoff time - times in UTC
5. ETA - eta in UTC

### Example for N563AS

```
3701 INRANG 0344/14 KPDX/KSEA .N563AS
/ETA 1355/ERT     
```

1. 3701 - ?
2. INRANG - some Googling seems to suggest "in range of", there's also an "INCLMB" variant of this message but I couldn't see any examples of this
3. 0344 - Flight number
4. /14 - ?
5. KPDX/KSEA - Destination/Arrival airports
6. .N563AS-  Registration prefixed with .
7. ETA 1355 - ETA in UTC
8. /ERT - ?
## Acronyms / Codes

## Analysis
